over the weekend we just got a look at
the first under display camera that
we've seen in a functional or seemingly
functional prototype and this was a
video put up by Oppo on their social
media account but they have a
front-facing camera that has hidden
under the display and then a few hours
later xiaomi another chinese company
puts out a video with the same kind of
technology and this video quality's a
little bit better they're showcasing a
device that looks very much like a me9
but it also has a fully functioning
front-facing selfie camera and it's
crazy like this is technology that we've
been seeking or the phone manufacturing
world has been seeking for the past
little while we started off with the
phone with a notch the essential phone
and then the iPhone had a notch and then
every Android phone start to have
notches and then we started to get
phones this year with things that aren't
notches but aren't really like you know
this isn't the final form that we're
looking for we have pop-up cameras we
have flip up cameras we have devices
that are trying to circumvent the whole
notch and punch hole technology but the
reality is that they're all trying to
achieve a completely natural asbestos
flip up camera list device and that's
what these prototypes are showing now
from what I understand the way that
they're achieving this is that they're
turning off the pixels right in front of
the camera sensors so on a regular OLED
display it's just a bunch of diodes that
are being lit and when they turn off
particular diodes and you can turn off
individually ones on an OLED panel when
you turn off a set of diodes whatever's
behind it now has a less obstructed
line-of-sight so if you look at this
still from the xiaomi video you can
still see that the camera with this
under display sensor still has a camera
visible on that prototype it's subtle
but it's there it's not as evident as
the regular mean and that's beside it
but it's definitely there so they've
turned off the diodes in that region
which allows the camera to be able to
shoot through it but the problem is that
that area that's been turned off is not
optically transparent it's translucent
we can obviously see through it to some
degree but it's not a super clean image
and that's the problem that all these
manufacturers are facing right now
anyone who's chasing this under display
sensor under under display camera has to
figure out how to clean up that image
because when you shoot through those
diodes even if they're off it's not
clean and they're going to need software
or some kind of algorithm
to clean up that image as best as they
can and maybe they can use maybe two
cameras so that you have basically two
data points to work with and then they
be able to combine that I'm not exactly
sure what the techniques are that they
could use for this but that is the
problem they're facing right now how do
we clean up that image so that it is
acceptable in today's selfie camera
market and keep in mind that these guys
aren't first right Samsung's been
working on this technology for quite a
while now even in 2018 there were
showing slides of how they were working
on some under display sensors and in
earlier this year they showed like their
whole infinity display lineup with the
new infinity being the one that's the
end goal but it's super interesting to
me that these two Chinese companies out
of nowhere showcase this technology in a
fully functioning prototype so for me
like I'm not someone that uses selfie
cameras very often so I'd be very
willing to eat image quality on my
front-facing camera for that technology
today obviously they're probably not
going to do that like they want to get a
front-facing image that's comparable to
a regular front-facing selfie camera
right obviously that's what most people
are going for but I think for a lot of
people myself included would just eat
crap front-facing image quality for that
technology today I mean I'm willing to
put up with the terrible camera on a
12-inch MacBook that's like a 480p
camera that looks like garbage but
whoever brings that technology to the
market first like whoever does it is
gonna have a banger because it resolved
things like having moving parts and
having reduced water resistance ratings
and stuff like that having a under
display camera sensor is like it's the
dream okay that basically wraps it up I
think this technology is cool I'm really
glad that we were able to see something
this early on I did not expect it it's
crazy that this went from a neat idea to
a seemingly functional prototype in a
very short period of time and that's
really cool obviously there's a lot more
work to be done but I like what I see
okay hope you guys enjoyed this video
thumbs we liked it sobs we loved it see
you guys next time